===== CONTENT FROM ADD_PM.docx =====

Introduction Quality check is a process which upholds the quality of the
report which is presented to the customer or client. Being in the team,
the process here will be very simple and complicated at the same time,
one has to pay attention to details and should not allow any sort of
errors or mistakes in the reports. Before we get started, one should
know 2 important things in the process

Consent letter A consent letter is one of the must-have documents in the
portal. As background verification (BGV) is a serious business and deals
with the data of the candidate, we would need a signed consent letter
for processing any sort of data provided by the candidate. View consent
will be present in the top-right corner of the portal in line with
candidate details. Make sure, whenever you QC a case or get a Customer
Support/Success request, you see that the case has a consent letter
present on the portal

Go through the attached letter to have a clear idea.

Package Text/Order Summary

Package Text/Order Summary provides information about the checks
included in the package that the client has opted for. Package
Text/Order Summary shows the required checks which are to be
added/presented in the report. Order Summary will be mentioned in the
top-right corner of the portal in line with candidate details While
doing QC, make sure you are checking the checks according to what is
mentioned in the Order summary

Points to remember In some checks, additional information about their
expected behavior will be mentioned below the checks name Example: For
Address check and Court check - It is mentioned that we have to run them
on Candidate’s permanent address, hence we have to check if it is
correctly processed as per the information Checklist SVIN QC -
Checklist - Refer to the QC checklist whenever you are doing QC, keep
this sheet pinned in one of the tabs on your browser 

Comments Sheet SVIN Check Grading Templates - Refer to this sheet to
cross-check the comments in the report 

Additional point:  For the cases with name changes where we raise
insufficiency for Name change deed, We mandatorily need name change deed
as a proof. This is also called Gazette Notification/Certificate in some
states. If it’s not available, client can provide an approval to
consider it without the proof.

Name Variation Thread: Whenever there is a name change, we will request
the candidate to provide one ID with the previous name and one with the
new name along with the name change deed. If the candidate cannot
provide these documents, we will seek client approval. To proceed with
these types of scenario cases, we require either the complete set of ID
documents along with the name change deed, or an approval email from the
client to proceed with the updated name. The case of ‘Ishan’
vs. ‘Ishaan’ is not considered a name change but a spelling discrepancy
in the documents. In such cases, the candidate must get the documents
corrected. The name should match the ID proof and be provided
accordingly by the company’s HR. In this scenario, we can take a written
clarification from the candidate and seek client approval to proceed.
Based on the client’s confirmation, we can process the case. However,
for actual name changes for example like below scenarios, where the
candidate has legally changed their name, we must collect one ID with
the previous name, one with the new name, and the name change deed. If
the candidate cannot provide these documents, we will request client
approval before proceeding. Ex: - Shivam Vs Ankit Abdul Vs Rahul Renuka
Singh Vs Renuka Tripati Shalini Devi Vs Shalini Thomas

Name variation scenarios: -

Step to perform QC: 1. Access QC Options Click on the three-dot menu (⋮)
next to the item you wish to review.

A dropdown menu will appear with the following options:

Mark QC as Done

Add to Report

Other related actions

2.  Mark QC as Done From the dropdown menu, select “Mark QC as Done.”

3.  Add to Report After marking the QC as done, you will be prompted
    with an option to “Add to Report.”

Click on “Add to Report” to include the item in the final report.

Address Check We run address verification to validate the address of the
candidate. There are 2 types of addresses - [i] Permanent Address. [ii]
Current Address There are 2 types of address checks - [i] Digital (DAV)
[ii] Physical (PAV)

While doing QC for Address checks, make sure the Address type is
matching the type in the Order Summary . 

In address verification, a valid document having address proof matching
the form address will be the primary requirement.

Documents considered for Address verification(for DAV&PAV) are the
Aadhaar card Driving License Voter ID Passport Vehicle Registration
Certificate Passport Utility Bill (Should be dated within 3 months)
Rental Agreement (Should not be expired) Lease Agreement (Should not be
expired) Sales deed Ration Card Bank Statement (Should have an
authorized seal & sign) PG Receipt(Should have an authorized seal &
sign)

These documents can be accepted if they are in the name of the
Candidate’s blood relatives, we shall need a relationship-supporting
document(proof) in such cases.

Digital Address Verification

In digital address verification(DAV), we request the candidate to verify
the address provided by asking them to provide the required images to
complete the verification. In DAV, we would need the following: Verifier
image Verifier ID images House door/gate image and house building image
(Either a door/gate image with house number/name or complete building
image is sufficient) GPS Annexure (address should be mentioned in GPS
annexure and Location circles should overlap each other)

The address mentioned in Data Provided should match the address
mentioned in the provided document (Original document) DAV can be
completed the candidates their self or by any of the candidate’s blood
relatives on behalf of them (Tenants, In-Laws & Extended family can also
be considered)

Format: Details(Data Provided & Data Found) 1. The address mentioned in
DP should match the address in document 2. The document should be in the
Candidate’s name or in the name of the Candidate’s blood relatives, we
shall need a relationship-supporting document(proof) in such cases. 3.
There should not be any typographical errors in any part of the report
(Abbreviations should be mentioned in all caps) 4. Residence Type and
Period of stay should be mentioned

Document: 1. The original document should match the address mentioned in
the Data provided 2. Mentioned data should be in the correct
typographical order 3. We should have an image(selfie) of the person who
is doing the DAV 4. Identity proof or Address proof  of the person
verifying the address is required. 5. A proper house image should be
attached (Either a door/gate image with house number/name or a complete
building image is sufficient) 6. House under construction needs
clarification from the candidate and comments should also be mentioned
for the same  If it is partially under construction and if the candidate
or family stays at the same address then  we’ll add the comment and
grade the check as verified. .  If complete house looks under
construction and candidates confirms that they  stay at the same address
then also also we’ll add the comment and  grade the check as verified.
If complete house looks under construction and nobody stays at the
address  we’ll grade the check as Inconclusion.

7.  House image which is captured at night - if they are not clear we
    can not accept it
8.  GPS annexure should have the mentioned address location circles
    should overlap one another
9.  No device-to-device captured images are accepted

Details(Verification Details) 1. Verification details should be
correctly mentioned (DIGITAL) 2. Document type should be correctly
mentioned 3. Verifier details(name and relationship) should be correctly
mentioned 4. Google Maps should denote the mentioned address 5.
Requested & Completed dates should be correctly mentioned(crosscheck the
chronology as the dates are manually added)

Comments: Under certain circumstances where there are some minor changes
in the address or the house number and when the complete house image can
not be captured from the candidate’s end, we accept such cases with
additional comments in the report. Make sure the comments are mentioned
as per the template Please refer to Address Comments Templates Doc for
reference.ṁ

When we have the above-mentioned data, images & documents as per the
procedure, we can pass QC.

Note: For Medics International Lifesciences Ltd. we can proceed without
an address match as per the document

Cross-check if the name as per HR and the name mentioned in the check
are matching, if not, check if there are any comments for the same in ID
checks. If the comments are not mentioned for variation in name as per
HR and the respected check, flag an error for the person who has changed
the Overall status from Form Submitted to In Progress

Errors These should be posted in sv-in-ops-qc-errors channel

1.  If the address is not mentioned as presenting the document
2.  If there are any typos in the report (including punctuation)
3.  If the Residence Type and period of stay are not mentioned
4.  If the document is not in the correct format
5.  If the document is not in the candidate’s name and no supporting
    document is found
6.  If there are any documents missing from the above-mentioned format
7.  If the verification type is incorrect
8.  If the document type is incorrect
9.  If the verifier details are incorrect
10. If the requested and completed dates are incorrect
11. If there is a mismatch of address in the GPS document / if the
    location circles are not overlapping
12. If there are any duplicate data mentioned in the report
13. If the comments are not mentioned as per the template
14. If there are any device-to-device captured images
15. If the identification number of the verifier (relative) is not
    masked.
16. If the house image is captured at night and if 

Note: If package text says that “To proceeds without address document”.
we can proceed without an address match as per the original document

International ADC 

ADC must be raised for all international contact numbers, irrespective
of the address, only when a call follow-up is required. For cases with
an international address and international contact number, the check can
be reviewed and initiated directly without raising ADC, provided no call
follow-up is done. If the candidate completes the verification within 3
days for such graded checks and no calling is required, QC should not
flag an error for non-raising of ADC charges. If the candidate does not
complete verification within 2 days and a call follow-up is required, an
ADC must be raised and approved.

Physical Address Verification Physical verification (PAV) happens when a
field agent visits the vicinity to process the verification on behalf of
the candidate. We have vendors to run PAV for Address verification There
will be one or two verified documents apart from the original documents
in the report. The verified documents will be of the house image
captured by the field agent, it will consist of watermarks denoting the
latitude and longitude of the area

In PAV, the QC check format will remain mostly the same with some
additional checks 1. Residence Type and Period of stay will not be
verified 2. Vendor information must be masked in the verified documents
3. Details(in DP, DF & Verification) should be checked as per DAV format
4. House image and  GPS is updated.  5. Verifier’s Image and ID proof
image are updated (Optional).

When we have the above-mentioned data, images & documents as per the
procedure, we can pass QC.

Cross-check if the name as per HR and the name mentioned in the check
are matching, if not, check if there are any comments for the same in ID
checks. If the comments are not mentioned for variation in name as per
HR and the respected check, flag an error for the person who has changed
the Overall status from Form Submitted to In Progress Errors Vendor
information has to be masked - Priority All errors followed in DAV
should be followed in PAV

Note: If package text says that “To proceeds without address document”
we can proceed without an address match as per the original document

Check Statuses -If the check is initiated and the candidate confirms
that they are no longer associated with the address, the check will be
marked as Discrepant.

When the candidate informs that the address provided belongs to them but
they can not avail verification, the check will be marked as Unable to
verify

There are a couple of scenarios when an Address check will be marked
Insuff Closed [i] When there are insufficient documents to run an
Address check [ii] When the candidate does not respond to verification
requests

The address check will be marked as Closed, only when there is a client
request

Important: There are certain scenarios where the check will be marked as
Discrepant and Unable to verify Please refer to the SVIN Check Grading
Templates  to have the detailed information

Important Information Regarding Physical Address Verification  

While doing the QC of physical address verification, it is important to
check the Data Provided and the Data Found location to see if the
location is nearby or not.

The process to check the details: 1. Open Google Maps

2.  Copy the landmark or keywords of the data provided address and
    search the location in Google Maps (if not, then try to search with
    the pin code mentioned)

3.  Copy the latitude and longitude from the Data Found section and
    search the distance between both locations.

4.  If the distance is within (or approx.) 1 km, this means Google
    location is captured fine

Reference:
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=135653&company_id=127

5.  If there is a difference, then raise an error or clarification on
    the concerned team.

Reference:
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=139957&company_id=316

Special Scenarios:  Sometimes it is captured as more than 1 km, then it
is acceptable 

Sometimes, the address is not traceable; find out by using keywords or
Pincode

If name board image is captured,which match’ s with the candidate’s
address, we can consider. 

===== CONTENT FROM Education_PM.docx =====

Education: Education check QC Process manual  In the Education check, we
run a background verification for the education details mentioned by the
candidate as per the client’s requirements. There are 3 types of
Education verifications  [1] Regional Partner Verification  [2] Official
Verification [3] Hybrid Verification 

The core concept: In this check, we collect documents from the candidate
and validate them (via the above-mentioned verification types) with
universities/governing bodies to run the verification. Documents being
processed and University/Governing bodies are the major parameters to be
valued here.

Documents: As mentioned above, documents are one of the important
subjects in this check  Only the below-mentioned documents are eligible
to be considered  -Degree certificate -Consolidated mark sheet
-Provisional mark sheet -Degree certificate + all semester mark sheet 
-Final semester mark sheet having all semester marks/grade information
[A consolidated mark sheet is a document which contains detailed marks
obtained by the student in all semesters (all semester subject-wise
marks/CGPA/grade) In the Final semester mark sheet with previous
semester mark sheets, we will see detailed marks obtained for the final
semester (subject-wise) and only the total mark/CGPA/grade of other
semesters will be mentioned. Other semester marks will not be detailed
in terms of the subject in this case]

These documents should be from the university or institution, hence make
sure the seal and signatures are present in a clear format 

The below documents are not eligible to be considered -Only the final
semester mark sheet -Course completion certificate -Image of documents
overlapping each other 

Primary Data Details like- Institute name, Candidate name, Course name,
Attendance type, Specialization, University name, Identification Number
& Course duration must be captured as per the document. Any variations
need to be flagged as an error  The final score can not be kept blank,
if the details are not provided details denoting that the candidate has
PASSED the course needs to be mentioned  Verification Details  -Document
type should be as per the documents attached in the Original Document
link -Verifier Name should be mentioned as per the verification
received, if not available Name not enclosed has to be mentioned
-Designation has to be as per the verifier details mentioned in the
confirmation -Verification Type: If it is Regional Partner
Verification - Physical                                   If it is
Official Verification - Postal/ Electronic depending on the mode of
confirmation received                                   If it is Hybrid
Verification - Initially Postal. After getting official confirmation it
should be Postal/ Electronic -The source should be as per the
confirmation received -Requested Date & Completed Date should be in the
correct chronological order -Comments have to be as per the templates
mentioned in SVIN - The grading template sheet  -Affiliation comment
needs to be correctly updated along with the affiliation annexure 
Affiliations Affiliations are one of the important areas to check in
Education check. This informs about the governing bodies of the
Institute in which the candidate has completed the education Here are a
few affiliation bodies (i) University Grant Commission - UGC (ii) All
India Council for Technical Education - AICTE (iii) Council of Boards of
School Education in India - COBSE (iv) Ministry of Education - MOE, etc.

Additional notes: 

If we have both Register number and roll number in document, In Data
provided -  Any one of the number can be considered depending on what
candidate has filled in BGV form and as per the document. In Data
Found - If verifier has verified any one of the number which is not
mentioned in data provided, an additional comment will be added for the
same. Example - Roll number is mentioned in Data provided. Verifier has
confirmed Register number, Check field status will be N/A and an
additional comment should be added for the same.

(i) University Grant Commission - UGC This governs most of the
    non-technical education institutes which offer courses like
    Bachelors of Commerce, Bachelors of Arts, Bachelors of Engineering,
    Bachelors of Science etc, most Universities come under this
    commission. Please find the Consolidated list of All
    Universities.pdf. This list includes all the universities that are
    governed by UGC Refer to https://ugc.ac.in/ for more information
    Annexure format:

(ii) All India Council for Technical Education - AICTE This governs the
     institutes that provide technical education like Diploma, MBA, and
     PGD courses etc. Please find the AICTE portal to check the
     institute details - Select the state name > mention the institute
     name Once the institute is found > click on course details to
     cross-check the course offered Refer to
     https://www.aicte-india.org/ for more information Annexure format:

(iii) Council of Boards of School Education in India - COBSE This
      governs the pre-university school boards which offer 10th and 12th
      education (SSLC & PUC) Please find the COBSE portal to check the
      board details Refer to https://www.cobse.org.in/ for more
      information Annexure format:

(iv) Ministry of Education - MOE This governs all the educational
     governing bodies that are functioning in India, this affiliates
     institutes like IITs and IIMs etc, which are not under UGC/AICTE
     kind of governing bodies Please find the MoE portal link to check
     the institutes Refer to https://www.education.gov.in/en for more
     info Annexure format:

Non-affiliated Education checks For certain certificate/professional
courses, we do not check for affiliation in the above-mentioned bodies
Few professional courses will be governed by Government of India or
State governments Ex: Chartered Accountant Few certificates course will
not be affiliated to any governing bodies. Ex: Polytechnic Diploma
courses. Post Graduation Diploma in Embedded Systems Design Note: Proper
research has to be done on non-affiliated education check

Note: All affiliation annexures should have the URL link visible in them

Discrepant Education Check due to affiliation issue: Off-shore courses
are not recognized. The University is recognized to offer courses only
within the State. In this case, the study center is in Maharashtra. This
is unapproved. Hence, the check was graded as Discrepant.

Types of Verification  Regional Partner Verification In this mode of
verification, we will send the document to our regional partners and
they will help us get the documents verified by the university.
Verification type in the report will be marked as Physical Here a Degree
certificate or a document containing most details will be sent to the
regional partners and the same will be authenticated by the university
with a seal and signature. This document will be called a verified
document. Only details mentioned in the verified document will be marked
as verified in the report The university name in the document and the
seal in the verifier should be an exact match

Any mid-semester mark sheets are not eligible for verification Any
couple of documents which are overlapping each other are not eligible
for verification *Cropped/incomplete documents are not eligible for
verification Example case

Note: If the verification type is Physical, we can run electronic
verification as well, if we are getting the details verified from the
University verification portal, Verification link in comment is
mandatory Example case Official Verification In this mode of
verification, we will be directly getting the verification from the
university There are 2 types of Official Verification (i) Electronic
(ii) Postal

Here we will be using Electronic electronic modes to get the
verification from the University via Emails and University Result
Portals. Emails: Only the details asked and confirmed in the
verification emails should be marked as verified in the Report Verifier
name and designation should be as per the verification received *Email
subject should be addressed to the candidate 

Name change process update: Whenever there is a name change, we will
request the candidate to provide one ID with the previous name and one
with the new name along with the name change deed. If the candidate
cannot provide these documents, we will seek client approval. To proceed
with these types of scenario cases, we require either the complete set
of ID documents along with the name change deed, or an approval email
from the client to proceed with the updated name. The case of ‘Ishan’
vs. ‘Ishaan’ is not considered a name change but a spelling discrepancy
in the documents. In such cases, the candidate must get the documents
corrected. The name should match the ID proof and be provided
accordingly by the company’s HR. In this scenario, we can take a written
clarification from the candidate and seek client approval to proceed.
Based on the client’s confirmation, we can process the case. However,
for actual name changes for example like below scenarios, where the
candidate has legally changed their name, we must collect one ID with
the previous name, one with the new name, and the name change deed. If
the candidate cannot provide these documents, we will request client
approval before proceeding. Ex: - Shivam Vs Ankit Abdul Vs Rahul Renuka
Singh Vs Renuka Tripati Shalini Devi Vs Shalini Thomas

For the cases with name changes where we raise insufficiency for Name
change deed, We mandatorily need name change deed as a proof. This is
also called Gazette Notification/Certificate in some states. If it’s not
available, client can provide an approval to consider it without the
proof. Name variation scenarios: -

===== CONTENT FROM EMP_PM.docx =====

QC Process Manual for MISC checks Checks Includes: ID, CRT, WCK, CIBIL,
Drug, Social Media, etc and CST checks

Introduction:- Quality check is a process which upholds the quality of
the report which is presented to the customer or client. Being in the
team, the process here will be very simple and complicated at the same
time, one has to pay attention to details and should not allow any sort
of errors or mistakes in the reports.

Before we get started, one should know 2 important things in the process

Consent Letter: A consent letter is one of the must-have documents in
the portal. As background verification (BGV) is a serious business and
deals with the data of the candidate, we would need a signed consent
letter for processing any sort of data provided by the candidate.
Consent will be present in the QC view - left corner of the portal in
line with candidate details. Make sure, whenever you QC a case or get a
Customer Support/Success request, you see that the case has a consent
letter present on the portal

Consent format:

Note: Undertaking are also acceptable. Few of the client approve
undertaking letter.  For eg: Sai Life Science Limited
(https://admin.in.springverify.com/companies/1202/candidates/204810)

Package Text/ Order Summary: Package Text/Order Summary provides
information about the checks included in the package that the client has
opted for. Package Text/Order Summary shows the required checks which
are to be added/presented in the report. Order Summary will be mentioned
in the QC view - Left corner of the portal in line with candidate
details While doing QC, make sure you are checking the checks according
to what is mentioned in the Order summary

Package text is mentioned in the top left corner above overview details
:

Points to remember:  In some checks, additional information about their
expected behavior will be mentioned below the checks name Example: For
Address check and Court check - It is mentioned that we have to run them
on Candidate’s permanent address, hence we have to check if it is
correctly processed as per the information

Checklist SVIN QC - Checklist - Refer to the QC checklist whenever you
are doing QC, keep this sheet pinned in one of the tabs on your browser 

Comments Sheet SVIN Check Grading Templates - Refer to this sheet to
cross-check the comments in the report 

Additional point: Name change process update: Whenever there is a name
change, we will request the candidate to provide one ID with the
previous name and one with the new name along with the name change deed.
If the candidate cannot provide these documents, we will seek client
approval. To proceed with these types of scenario cases, we require
either the complete set of ID documents along with the name change deed,
or an approval email from the client to proceed with the updated name.
The case of ‘Ishan’ vs. ‘Ishaan’ is not considered a name change but a
spelling discrepancy in the documents. In such cases, the candidate must
get the documents corrected. The name should match the ID proof and be
provided accordingly by the company’s HR. In this scenario, we can take
a written clarification from the candidate and seek client approval to
proceed. Based on the client’s confirmation, we can process the case.
However, for actual name changes for example like below scenarios, where
the candidate has legally changed their name, we must collect one ID
with the previous name, one with the new name, and the name change deed.
If the candidate cannot provide these documents, we will request client
approval before proceeding. Ex: - Shivam Vs Ankit Abdul Vs Rahul Renuka
Singh Vs Renuka Tripati Shalini Devi Vs Shalini Thomas

For the cases with name changes where we raise insufficiency for Name
change deed, We mandatorily need name change deed as a proof. This is
also called Gazette Notification/Certificate in some states. If it’s not
available, client can provide an approval to consider it without the
proof. Name variation scenarios: -

Identity Check In this check, we check the candidate’s Identity bases on
different - different ID proof. We check the below ID Proof of the
candidate PAN Aadhaar Voter ID Driving License Passport How to do ID
checks: In the Identity checks report, we will have the Identity card
number, Candidate name, date of birth and candidate’s father’s name as
per the Identity card proof, we have to check if the data mentioned in
the report matches the with the attached document(which will be the
identity card proof) and the ID card number, Father’s name and date of
birth have to be as per the document. Candidate name will sometimes
slightly vary, in such cases, we should check for name variation
automated comments  mentioning the variation in the candidate’s name. 
Automated comment for name variation will be mentioned in the Internal
report 1st page after the verification Summary section 

Steps: -Open the candidates profile in the SpringVerify portal

-Read the popups which are present above the candidate name - This helps
you to know in advance about the variations

Go to the internal report and click on the check icon to land on the
check page report

Open the document from the document section or in split document will be
opened side by side and check if the details are matching ID Number,
Date of birth and father’s name should be exactly mentioned as per the
If there is a variation in the candidate’s name - Automated comment for
name variation will be mentioned in the Internal report 1st page after
the verification Summary section Also check for verification type - it
should be electronics only  Check for requested date and completed date
and it should be in chronological order. Also check for correct document
tagging. 

If a candidate has changed his/her name, there should be an additional
comment of the name as per the Gazette document

Allowable variations - These can be accepted without comments or changes

If the first name and second names are interchanged If there is an
extra/less space between names or initials If Father’s name is not
available - The data Provided column can be blank If PAN says that the
candidate is Minor If the first and second names are combined  If
everything is correctly matching without any error then we can pass the
QC.

Important Note: 

For ID Checks Auto-Graded :If the ID Check is auto-graded by the system,
and the ID document appears blurred or the details are not clearly
visible, the team will not raise an insufficiency. In such cases, we can
proceed with the given document.

For the cases with name changes where we raise insufficiency for Name
change deed, We mandatorily need name change deed as a proof. This is
also called Gazette Notification/Certificate in some states. If it’s not
available, client can provide an approval to consider it without the
proof.

For all ID checks that are being run manually, the team need to take a
screenshot of the search conducted on the government portal and attach
it in the report in PDF, JPEG, or GIF format.

All passport checks run through the MRZ method; the details need to be
added to a Word document, which should then be converted to a PDF. The
same PDF document needs to be attached in the report

Only international passports have to be done through the MRZ method.
Indian passport should be run through the Indian passport portal.

For DL and Indian Passport, Date of Birth should be verified. Please
flag this if its not marked as verified.

For the PAN (ID check), if the check is auto completed by SV or if the
payload message is available in the data found, We can Pass the QC and
not required to raise an error for clear documents. For Aadhar only
Aadhar Number will be marked as verified, rest all info will be N/A. For
PAN: PAN number and name will be marked as verified For DL, Indian
passport , Voter ID: Search result will be attached and details will be
graded as per that.  For eg:  Driving licence - ID number, name, DOB and
sometimes father’s name will also be graded.  Indian Pasport - DOB will
also be marked as verified  Voter ID - Only ID number and name will be
verified  Errors:

These errors  should be posted in sv-in-ops-qc-errors channel :- If any
data mentioned is not as per the documents If the document is of some
other candidate If the document is not cropped and aligned in a proper
format If there are any sort of typographical errors If any details are
not filled in (DOB/father’s name) If the mother’s name is mentioned
instead of the father’s name If the Gazette document comments are
missing If there is a document duplication If there are automated
comments in the check 

Automated comment example: Unable to Verify ID check: 

Identity checks are marked Unable to Verify in two scenarios [i] When we
are unable to validate the details mentioned in the ID document (Invalid
Voter ID number) [ii] When no data is found on the API search

Please find the below example case which is Unable to verify  Example
case 1

The check will be marked as Insuff closed when there are insufficient
documents to run the ID check.

The Identity check will be marked as Closed, only when there is a client
request Discrepant ID check: Identity checks are marked Discrepant when
there is a mismatch of the Candidate’s name in the API search

Please find the below example case of Identity Verification Discrepancy 

International Passport Check How to validate the International passport
using Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) validation method?

What is a Machine Readable Zone (MRZ)?

MRZ code is a string of characters that appears on the bottom of the
personal data page of a passport. It is a combination of letters,
numbers, and symbols that are arranged in two lines.

The MRZ consists of 2 lines × 44 characters. (Please refer the
highlighted section on the passport)

Understanding how to run the International passport using Machine
Readable Zone (MRZ) validation method with an example.

Please note that this is applicable only for passports and no other IDs.

Capture Passport MRZ Data: MRZ1:
P<KENNYAUNDI<<AMOS<NGISA<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

P stands for Passport Kennyaundi- Last name Amos Ngisa - Given name

MRZ2: AK10084683KEN9804108M320214835025281<<<<<<64

AK1008468- Passport number 3- filler number KEN- Country code 980410=
10th April 1998 which matches with DOB 8- filler number M- Male 3-
filler number 320214- 14th Feb 2032- passport expiry date 835025281-
filler number

Decode MRZ Data:  MRZ1 usually contains information about the Surname,
Given Names, Country, and Gender information.

MRZ2 typically contains information about the passport number/ID number,
country details, birth date, and expiry date information.

Compare Extracted Data: Compare the extracted data with the
corresponding fields on the passport. Ensure that the surname, given
names, country details, gender, birth date, expiry date, and passport
number match between the extracted data and the passport.

Validate Passport:  If all the extracted data matches the corresponding
fields on the passport, we can grade the check as verified.

Note : We will add a disclaimer stating “This passport has been checked
via MRZ validation” to indicate the method used for verification.

Grading comments : 

Format to be used under the comments sections when checks are completed.

Here’s the extracted information from the response: - Surname: NYAUNDI -
Given Names: AMOS NGISA - Gender: M - Country: KEN (Kenya) - Birth Date:
1998-04-10 - Expiry Date: 2032-02-14 - ID Number: AK1008468 - Issuance
Date: 2022-02-15

And here are the MRZ1 and MRZ2 values: - MRZ1:
“P<KENNYAUNDI<<AMOS<NGISA<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<” - MRZ2:
“AK10084683KEN9804108M320214835025281<<<<<<64”

Comparing the extracted information with the MRZ data: - MRZ1 contains
Surname, Given Names, Country, and Gender information, which matches the
extracted data. - MRZ2 contains ID Number, Country, Birth Date, and
Expiry Date information, which also matches the extracted data.

Therefore, based on the JSON response, the passport data seems to be
valid.

Disclaimer: This passport has been checked via MRZ validation.

Reference - 1.
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=134574&company_id=566
2.
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=116607&company_id=2487
3.
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=146727&company_id=3108

COURT Check: We run court checks to search the criminal records of the
candidate.

The court check team will gather the data from the candidate and
initiate the case to one of our vendors to get the records checked and
close the check accordingly   For a check to be graded  as Verified
 there 3 scenarios  1. If we find no online records found based on
search criteria 2. If we find a partial match, the case type is
minor(Civil) and we don’t have a valid data match. 3. If the candidate
provides an authorized letter [PCC document] from the Police department
stating that there are no court records found on the candidate 

Note: For Medics International Lifesciences Ltd. we can proceed without
an address match as per the document Documents considered for Address
proof for CRT check are the Aadhaar card Driving License Voter ID
Passport Vehicle Registration Certificate Passport Utility Bill (Should
be dated within 3 months) Rental Agreement (Should not be expired) Lease
Agreement (Should not be expired) Sales deed Ration Card Bank Statement
(Should have an authorized seal & sign) PG Receipt(Should have an
authorized seal & sign)

These documents can be accepted if they are in the name of the
Candidate’s blood relatives, we shall need a relationship-supporting
document(proof) in such cases.

Cross check if the name as per HR and name mentioned in the check is
matching, if not, check there will be automated comment mentioned in 1st
page of internal report after the verification summary.

Things to check in Court check 1. The address in Data Provided should be
matching with the Documents attached 2. Comments should be as per
comments template 3. Check the Requested date and Completed date should
be correctly mentioned 4. Document tagging should be correctly mentioned
5. If there is a variation in name as per the Address document,
automated comment will be present for that. 6. The document should be
cropped and aligned in the correct way 7. The address should be
mentioned in the correct format typographically 

Points to be noted for Possible match cases: CNR Number should be
updated in the comment section Confirmation PDF should be masked and
flatten. The header for “Disclaimers and limitations of liability”  it
will be present by End of the CRT check report. The disclaimer should be
updated for possible matching cases, irrespective of the grading matrix
(UTV/RED/Green).

Petitioner and Respondent  A person who files a complaint against a
person or an entity is known as a petitioner. A person on whom a
complaint is filed on is know as Respondent

Errors 1. If there is a mismatch in address mentioned in the document
and in data provided 2. If there is a missing document 3. If the
comments are not captured as per the template 4. If the attached
document is expired (refer document format under Address check) 5. If
Requested or completed dates are missing 6. If law letterhead is missing
(as per package text)

Law firm Letterhead

We have certain clients for whom we have to add a law-firm letterhead
annexure in the court check along with the normal procedure. Info to
check for Letterhead will be mentioned in the Order summary/Package
text. Make sure you have the letterhead annexure in the report and check
if the report is of the candidate and no court records are found against
the candidate’s data

Letterhead annexure 

Client List: Law Firm Letterhead Neev Systems Private Limited SBNA
Software Solutions Private Limited Integrichain M Solution Speegile
Furthersysytmes Midland Microfin Limited Further Systems Private Limited
i2e Consulting Private Limited Resolvit Management and Technology
Consulting India Private Limited Torrins Anthem Private Limited 40K
Education Private Limited Aspire Fintech Private Limited Alleima India
Private Limited

SOP for Client AXA XL: Detailed descriptions of the case should not be
included in the report or the comment section. The CNR Number should be
updated in the comment section. The confirmation PDF should be masked
and flattened. FIR details should be masked. The header for “Disclaimers
and limitations of liability” in the comment section should be formatted
in bold. The disclaimer should be updated for possible matching cases,
irrespective of the grading matrix (UTV/RED/Green). Do not include the
description of the section under which the person is booked. (Example:
If a person is booked under IPC 420, the report may state that the
person is booked under IPC 420, but the description of IPC 420 should
not be included). The report format remains the same. Vendor details
must be masked along with hyperlinks to the vendor portal and eCourt
portal. The following are the sections where hyperlinks are included in
the report: On top of the report under the archived version of the case
Case History section History of Case Hearing FIR Details Final
Orders/Judgments Main information sections Police Clearance Certificate 
When we find particle matches of the candidate’s info, at times the
candidate will come back stating that he/she has no criminal records. To
support the claim, the candidate will provide a Police clearance
certificate.

Attached below is an example of Police clearance certificate

Things to note: We will update the comments in Court check regarding the
PCC, make sure PCC is updated in a fullform as Police Clearance
Certificate and not in short form as PCC

Check Statuses: Scenarios - If candidate is petitioner  What is Bail
Application case? If a person believes they may be arrested for a crime
they are accused of, they can apply for a bail order in advance to avoid
being taken into custody. Bail application cases are register under
CRPC438,439 which has been now changed to 482 and 483 of Bharatiya
Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 Scenario 1: Bail Application Case → 
Condition 1: Complete Match

If the candidate is petitioner and the name and address is completely
matching with the petitioner record, we can mark the check as
“Discrepant”

✅ QC Grade: Discrepant

Condition 2: Partial Match

If the candidate is petitioner and the name and address is partially
matching with the petitioner record, we can mark the check as “Unable to
Verify”

✅ QC Grade: UTV (Unable to Verify)

Scenario 2: Not a Bail Application Case For non-bail application case
check will be graded as “Verified”.

✅ QC Grade: Verified

-   When we find a partial match, the case type is major(Criminal) and
    we don’t have a valid data match the check will go as Unable To
    Verify  

-   If a complete match is found between the data and the source
    document, and the case type is classified as a major case (such as a
    Criminal or Civil case) that falls under the Red Category, the check
    must be graded as Discrepant.

-   The check will be marked as Insuff closed when there are
    insufficient documents to run the Court check.

-   The Court check will be marked as Closed, only when there is a
    client request

World Check(WCK)

World Check is done to cross check records (terrorist attack,
laundering, corruption or any other records internationally) of the
candidate on a global level.  Check package text for the case before
starting WCK QC. There are a few clients that request a database list to
be attached along with the case report. World: : Attach the database
list. World Check (Attach the Database) Client: Bangalore Aircraft
Industries Private Limited World Check - List of Keywords
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/document?uuid=6ab8edea-3139-433d-b62b-19d9695651df

Completed Green - World Check A World Check report, when marked as
Verified, has the header “Case Report”. World Check: Example Case The
following details are mentioned under DP: Name  Father’s Name Date of
Birth Address The following is to be mentioned under “Details”:
Verification Type - Electronic Source - LSEG Requested Date Completed
Date The following document is to be attached under “Documents”:
Verified Document - This document has the LSEG report for World Check.
The following details should be checked in the report -  Name - 
Candidate name should be an exact match as per DP in the internal
report. A slight variation in name is acceptable as long as we are sure
that it represents the same candidate. Date of Birth - should match the
date of birth in DP (hence, PAN). Vendor Details - should be MASKED in
white. Hence, vendor details shouldn’t be visible at all. Vendor details
are mentioned below Case ID and at the footer of each page. Verified
Document - If in case, candidate ID is not added under Identity Check,
then, ID proof is attached under World Check. Any ID is sufficient to
run World Check

Insuff Closed - World Check World Check will go as Insuff - Closed when
we have insufficient documents to run the check and when the candidate
or client do not respond after multiple follow ups.

Closed - World Check World Check will go as Closed when there is a
client request for the same.

UTV - World Check World Check will go as UTV when we are unable to
validate the details mentioned.

Discrepant - World Check A World Check report, when marked as
Discrepant, has the header “World Check Match Details Report”. World
Check will go as Discrepant when there is a finding in the LSEG report
where the name and DOB is an exact match.

Verified WCK example

Cibil Check/Credit Check:

-> Process update for CIBIL Check: Name, Father’s Name, DOB, or Gender
Variations:- If there are variations in any of these fields, the check
would be graded as Verified. No Credit History / Score = -1, the check
would be grading as Verified. Low Credit Score (≤300): if the credit
score is 300 or below, the check would be graded as Discrepant.

Cibil Check is done to know the Cibil Score (Credit Score) of the
candidate.  CIBIL Score is a three-digit numeric summary of the
candidate’s credit history. The score is derived using the credit
history found in the CIBIL Report (also known as CIR i.e Credit
Information Report). A CIR is an individual’s credit payment history
across loan types and credit institutions over a period of time. Cibil
Check cannot be run without PAN number as all our financial records are
linked to PAN number.

Completed Verified  - Cibil Check Example Case: Green Cibil Check The
following details are mentioned under DP: Name  PAN Number Date of Birth
The following is to be mentioned under “Details”: CIBIL TRANSUNION SCORE
Version 2.0 - The score in the internal report should be an exact match
of the Transunion Report Requested Date Completed Date Comments, if any
The following document is to be attached under “Documents”: Verified
Document - This document has the Transunion Cibil report for Cibil
Check. The following details should be checked in the report -  Name - 
Candidate name under consumer information should be an exact match to DP
in the internal report.  A slight variation in name is acceptable as
long as we are sure that it represents the same candidate. The Identity
Check section (Data Found) can be checked for the same. Comment will be
mentioned for the variation, even if the difference is minor(e.g., the
addition of a middle name, initial, or slight spelling difference). 

Few name variation Example: 1. Case link . As per DP (wrt PAN)  name is
“Lakshmi Chikkerur” As per CIBIL report name is “Lakshmi K Chikkerur”
that will be updated in DF and based on this variation comment will be
captured for this.

2.  Case Link . As per DP (wrt PAN)  name is “Pradeep Latha Vijayendran”
    As per CIBIL report name is “Pradeep L V V” that will be updated in
    DF and based on this variation comment will be captured for this.

Date of Birth - should match the date of birth in DP (hence, PAN).
Vendor Details - should be MASKED in white. Hence, vendor details
shouldn’t be visible at all. Only PAN is accepted for Cibil Check and it
is mandatory to be attached in the Cibil check. . For DP and DF 
variation captured in terms of name and DOB, comment will be captured. 

Cibil Scores: Below  ≤300 - Low Cibil Score - the check is to go as
discrepant. Above 300 - Acceptable Cibil Score - check will be graded as
Verified  If the candidate is not in CIBIL Database or if the loan
history is older than 36 months, then the Cibil Score will be -1. . 
comment as per the SVIN Check Grading Templates will be given for the
same. Example Case: Cibil Score -1

Insuff Closed - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as Insuff - Closed when
we have insufficient documents to run the check and when the candidate
or client do not respond after multiple follow ups.

Closed - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as Closed when there is a
client request for the same. Example Case: Closed Cibil Check

UTV - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as UTV when we are unable to
validate the details mentioned.

Discrepant - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as Discrepant when:  Low
Credit Score (≤300): if the credit score is 300 or below, the check
would be graded as Discrepant. Mismatch of the candidate’s PAN number
from TransUnion CIBIL report, check would be graded as Discrepant

Drug Check: 

A pre-employment drug testing program for background investigation helps
protect employers from hiring drug users, before they can have any
impact on the workplace. It is done to find if the candidate has a habit
of regular consumption of drugs. The result should be found negative for
verified check otherwise for positive case it will go as discrepant. Why
are drug tests important at the workplace ? Drug users are more prone to
accidents To improve worker safety and health To avoid workplace hazards
Prevent employee theft and absenteeism Drugs hamper employee
productivity Drug users are a big threat to organizations dealing with
sensitive data Drugs Tested in the 5-Panel Test Drug panel-5 uses urine
as the sample to test for the presence of commonly abused drugs
substances: marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, and Phencyclidine
(PCP). Commercial names for opiates include Codeine, Morphine, and
Heroin (6 AM). Methamphetamine and MDMA are common amphetamines, and
street names include Meth, Molly, Extract, and M. PCP is often referred
to as angel dust or rocket fuel. Cut off Levels (Urine)

Completed Green Negative results indicate absence of drug in urine or
concentrations below the assay cutoff .   Example: Completed Green Drug
Check

Completed Discrepant case Positive results indicate presence of drugs in
urine or concentrations above the assay cutoff. Example : Completed Red
Drug Check 

Custom Check: 

Resume validation Checks: A resume verification process involves
fact-checking the information on a CV, it is a procedure through which
the features of the information provided by the applicant in both the
Resume and Profile Background Form are corroborated and the legitimacy
of the information is authenticated and determined. 

Importance of a CV Validation CV Validation can help prevent bad
recruits by validating the candidate’s work experience and education
before making a hiring decision. Many companies provide a resume to
offer compensation packages, promotions and job responsibilities.
However, many job applicants and employees provide fake details,
education and employment history to appear more qualified to grab
successful jobs. Offering benefits to an unqualified individual based on
exaggerated CVs could waste time, money and efforts on training besides
falsely affecting a company’s productivity and increased turnover rate.
CV frauds such as the exaggeration of skills, false experience are some
reasons that involve CV verification. CV validation is also important to
detect resume frauds such as claiming to have been employed by companies
they never worked for. The major areas where CV frauds were detected
were in the areas of employment verification along with address
verification, reference screening, and education. Resume Validation -
Green When the details of the candidate matches with the verification
done, the check is graded as verifed.

Social Media Checks A Social Media Background Check is a thorough
examination of a person’s social media history, looking for negative
behaviors that may be indicated by posts, likes or comments. This may
help give employers an indication of the personality or character of
potential employees. These negative behaviors include bullying, racism,
extremist religious or political views, excessive foul language and
more. In addition to analyzing a person’s social media accounts, a
Social Media Background Check also looks into associations or groups to
which they may be affiliated. Someone may post infrequently and have a
relatively clean posting history, but this may only tell part of a
story. If they are members of a group or frequently liked pages
associated with problematic content or ideas, such as supremacist or
fundamentalist groups, this may indicate a number of factors that could
influence a job offer.  

Why are social media background checks important? Conducting social
media checks is important for a number of different reasons and the
reasons why businesses carry out social media checks should relate to
the challenges that they face around risk, such as: Security – risks can
range from hiring someone linked to a Proscribed organization or illegal
activities, to a candidate who could expose your company to bribery,
corruption or fraud. Behavior – the risk from an individual’s negative
behavior can have far-reaching consequences for your staff, your
customers and your brand. For example, if they breach company policy,
showcase undesirable characteristics or leak confidential information.
Integrity – an adverse media story can damage a company’s reputation
many years down the line, linking your brand with sexist or racist
behavior for example. Social media checks are also a useful way to
validate information shared by a candidate, helping you gauge more
intangible qualities like trust.

Platform used to find candidate profiles are:  LinkedIn Twitter Facebook
Instagram Other associate accounts if found 

Completed Green When the candidate does not have any misconduct in
public, political rants, sexual abuse, police/court records etc  found
in the verification . Example : Green social media check

Completed Yellow When the candidate’s social media profiles are not
available or private, due to which the verification is incomplete  then
the check is graded as Unable To Verify (Yellow).

Example: Yellow social media check

===== CONTENT FROM MISC_PM.docx =====

QC Process Manual for MISC checks Checks Includes: ID, CRT, WCK, CIBIL,
Drug, Social Media, etc and CST checks

Introduction:- Quality check is a process which upholds the quality of
the report which is presented to the customer or client. Being in the
team, the process here will be very simple and complicated at the same
time, one has to pay attention to details and should not allow any sort
of errors or mistakes in the reports.

Before we get started, one should know 2 important things in the process

Consent Letter: A consent letter is one of the must-have documents in
the portal. As background verification (BGV) is a serious business and
deals with the data of the candidate, we would need a signed consent
letter for processing any sort of data provided by the candidate.
Consent will be present in the QC view - left corner of the portal in
line with candidate details. Make sure, whenever you QC a case or get a
Customer Support/Success request, you see that the case has a consent
letter present on the portal

Consent format:

Note: Undertaking are also acceptable. Few of the client approve
undertaking letter.  For eg: Sai Life Science Limited
(https://admin.in.springverify.com/companies/1202/candidates/204810)

Package Text/ Order Summary: Package Text/Order Summary provides
information about the checks included in the package that the client has
opted for. Package Text/Order Summary shows the required checks which
are to be added/presented in the report. Order Summary will be mentioned
in the QC view - Left corner of the portal in line with candidate
details While doing QC, make sure you are checking the checks according
to what is mentioned in the Order summary

Package text is mentioned in the top left corner above overview details
:

Points to remember:  In some checks, additional information about their
expected behavior will be mentioned below the checks name Example: For
Address check and Court check - It is mentioned that we have to run them
on Candidate’s permanent address, hence we have to check if it is
correctly processed as per the information

Checklist SVIN QC - Checklist - Refer to the QC checklist whenever you
are doing QC, keep this sheet pinned in one of the tabs on your browser 

Comments Sheet SVIN Check Grading Templates - Refer to this sheet to
cross-check the comments in the report 

Additional point: Name change process update: Whenever there is a name
change, we will request the candidate to provide one ID with the
previous name and one with the new name along with the name change deed.
If the candidate cannot provide these documents, we will seek client
approval. To proceed with these types of scenario cases, we require
either the complete set of ID documents along with the name change deed,
or an approval email from the client to proceed with the updated name.
The case of ‘Ishan’ vs. ‘Ishaan’ is not considered a name change but a
spelling discrepancy in the documents. In such cases, the candidate must
get the documents corrected. The name should match the ID proof and be
provided accordingly by the company’s HR. In this scenario, we can take
a written clarification from the candidate and seek client approval to
proceed. Based on the client’s confirmation, we can process the case.
However, for actual name changes for example like below scenarios, where
the candidate has legally changed their name, we must collect one ID
with the previous name, one with the new name, and the name change deed.
If the candidate cannot provide these documents, we will request client
approval before proceeding. Ex: - Shivam Vs Ankit Abdul Vs Rahul Renuka
Singh Vs Renuka Tripati Shalini Devi Vs Shalini Thomas

For the cases with name changes where we raise insufficiency for Name
change deed, We mandatorily need name change deed as a proof. This is
also called Gazette Notification/Certificate in some states. If it’s not
available, client can provide an approval to consider it without the
proof. Name variation scenarios: -

Identity Check In this check, we check the candidate’s Identity bases on
different - different ID proof. We check the below ID Proof of the
candidate PAN Aadhaar Voter ID Driving License Passport How to do ID
checks: In the Identity checks report, we will have the Identity card
number, Candidate name, date of birth and candidate’s father’s name as
per the Identity card proof, we have to check if the data mentioned in
the report matches the with the attached document(which will be the
identity card proof) and the ID card number, Father’s name and date of
birth have to be as per the document. Candidate name will sometimes
slightly vary, in such cases, we should check for name variation
automated comments  mentioning the variation in the candidate’s name. 
Automated comment for name variation will be mentioned in the Internal
report 1st page after the verification Summary section 

Steps: -Open the candidates profile in the SpringVerify portal

-Read the popups which are present above the candidate name - This helps
you to know in advance about the variations

Go to the internal report and click on the check icon to land on the
check page report

Open the document from the document section or in split document will be
opened side by side and check if the details are matching ID Number,
Date of birth and father’s name should be exactly mentioned as per the
If there is a variation in the candidate’s name - Automated comment for
name variation will be mentioned in the Internal report 1st page after
the verification Summary section Also check for verification type - it
should be electronics only  Check for requested date and completed date
and it should be in chronological order. Also check for correct document
tagging. 

If a candidate has changed his/her name, there should be an additional
comment of the name as per the Gazette document

Allowable variations - These can be accepted without comments or changes

If the first name and second names are interchanged If there is an
extra/less space between names or initials If Father’s name is not
available - The data Provided column can be blank If PAN says that the
candidate is Minor If the first and second names are combined  If
everything is correctly matching without any error then we can pass the
QC.

Important Note: 

For ID Checks Auto-Graded :If the ID Check is auto-graded by the system,
and the ID document appears blurred or the details are not clearly
visible, the team will not raise an insufficiency. In such cases, we can
proceed with the given document.

For the cases with name changes where we raise insufficiency for Name
change deed, We mandatorily need name change deed as a proof. This is
also called Gazette Notification/Certificate in some states. If it’s not
available, client can provide an approval to consider it without the
proof.

For all ID checks that are being run manually, the team need to take a
screenshot of the search conducted on the government portal and attach
it in the report in PDF, JPEG, or GIF format.

All passport checks run through the MRZ method; the details need to be
added to a Word document, which should then be converted to a PDF. The
same PDF document needs to be attached in the report

Only international passports have to be done through the MRZ method.
Indian passport should be run through the Indian passport portal.

For DL and Indian Passport, Date of Birth should be verified. Please
flag this if its not marked as verified.

For the PAN (ID check), if the check is auto completed by SV or if the
payload message is available in the data found, We can Pass the QC and
not required to raise an error for clear documents. For Aadhar only
Aadhar Number will be marked as verified, rest all info will be N/A. For
PAN: PAN number and name will be marked as verified For DL, Indian
passport , Voter ID: Search result will be attached and details will be
graded as per that.  For eg:  Driving licence - ID number, name, DOB and
sometimes father’s name will also be graded.  Indian Pasport - DOB will
also be marked as verified  Voter ID - Only ID number and name will be
verified  Errors:

These errors  should be posted in sv-in-ops-qc-errors channel :- If any
data mentioned is not as per the documents If the document is of some
other candidate If the document is not cropped and aligned in a proper
format If there are any sort of typographical errors If any details are
not filled in (DOB/father’s name) If the mother’s name is mentioned
instead of the father’s name If the Gazette document comments are
missing If there is a document duplication If there are automated
comments in the check 

Automated comment example: Unable to Verify ID check: 

Identity checks are marked Unable to Verify in two scenarios [i] When we
are unable to validate the details mentioned in the ID document (Invalid
Voter ID number) [ii] When no data is found on the API search

Please find the below example case which is Unable to verify  Example
case 1

The check will be marked as Insuff closed when there are insufficient
documents to run the ID check.

The Identity check will be marked as Closed, only when there is a client
request Discrepant ID check: Identity checks are marked Discrepant when
there is a mismatch of the Candidate’s name in the API search

Please find the below example case of Identity Verification Discrepancy 

International Passport Check How to validate the International passport
using Machine Readable Zone (MRZ) validation method?

What is a Machine Readable Zone (MRZ)?

MRZ code is a string of characters that appears on the bottom of the
personal data page of a passport. It is a combination of letters,
numbers, and symbols that are arranged in two lines.

The MRZ consists of 2 lines × 44 characters. (Please refer the
highlighted section on the passport)

Understanding how to run the International passport using Machine
Readable Zone (MRZ) validation method with an example.

Please note that this is applicable only for passports and no other IDs.

Capture Passport MRZ Data: MRZ1:
P<KENNYAUNDI<<AMOS<NGISA<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<

P stands for Passport Kennyaundi- Last name Amos Ngisa - Given name

MRZ2: AK10084683KEN9804108M320214835025281<<<<<<64

AK1008468- Passport number 3- filler number KEN- Country code 980410=
10th April 1998 which matches with DOB 8- filler number M- Male 3-
filler number 320214- 14th Feb 2032- passport expiry date 835025281-
filler number

Decode MRZ Data:  MRZ1 usually contains information about the Surname,
Given Names, Country, and Gender information.

MRZ2 typically contains information about the passport number/ID number,
country details, birth date, and expiry date information.

Compare Extracted Data: Compare the extracted data with the
corresponding fields on the passport. Ensure that the surname, given
names, country details, gender, birth date, expiry date, and passport
number match between the extracted data and the passport.

Validate Passport:  If all the extracted data matches the corresponding
fields on the passport, we can grade the check as verified.

Note : We will add a disclaimer stating “This passport has been checked
via MRZ validation” to indicate the method used for verification.

Grading comments : 

Format to be used under the comments sections when checks are completed.

Here’s the extracted information from the response: - Surname: NYAUNDI -
Given Names: AMOS NGISA - Gender: M - Country: KEN (Kenya) - Birth Date:
1998-04-10 - Expiry Date: 2032-02-14 - ID Number: AK1008468 - Issuance
Date: 2022-02-15

And here are the MRZ1 and MRZ2 values: - MRZ1:
“P<KENNYAUNDI<<AMOS<NGISA<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<” - MRZ2:
“AK10084683KEN9804108M320214835025281<<<<<<64”

Comparing the extracted information with the MRZ data: - MRZ1 contains
Surname, Given Names, Country, and Gender information, which matches the
extracted data. - MRZ2 contains ID Number, Country, Birth Date, and
Expiry Date information, which also matches the extracted data.

Therefore, based on the JSON response, the passport data seems to be
valid.

Disclaimer: This passport has been checked via MRZ validation.

Reference - 1.
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=134574&company_id=566
2.
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=116607&company_id=2487
3.
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/details?id=146727&company_id=3108

COURT Check: We run court checks to search the criminal records of the
candidate.

The court check team will gather the data from the candidate and
initiate the case to one of our vendors to get the records checked and
close the check accordingly   For a check to be graded  as Verified
 there 3 scenarios  1. If we find no online records found based on
search criteria 2. If we find a partial match, the case type is
minor(Civil) and we don’t have a valid data match. 3. If the candidate
provides an authorized letter [PCC document] from the Police department
stating that there are no court records found on the candidate 

Note: For Medics International Lifesciences Ltd. we can proceed without
an address match as per the document Documents considered for Address
proof for CRT check are the Aadhaar card Driving License Voter ID
Passport Vehicle Registration Certificate Passport Utility Bill (Should
be dated within 3 months) Rental Agreement (Should not be expired) Lease
Agreement (Should not be expired) Sales deed Ration Card Bank Statement
(Should have an authorized seal & sign) PG Receipt(Should have an
authorized seal & sign)

These documents can be accepted if they are in the name of the
Candidate’s blood relatives, we shall need a relationship-supporting
document(proof) in such cases.

Cross check if the name as per HR and name mentioned in the check is
matching, if not, check there will be automated comment mentioned in 1st
page of internal report after the verification summary.

Things to check in Court check 1. The address in Data Provided should be
matching with the Documents attached 2. Comments should be as per
comments template 3. Check the Requested date and Completed date should
be correctly mentioned 4. Document tagging should be correctly mentioned
5. If there is a variation in name as per the Address document,
automated comment will be present for that. 6. The document should be
cropped and aligned in the correct way 7. The address should be
mentioned in the correct format typographically 

Points to be noted for Possible match cases: CNR Number should be
updated in the comment section Confirmation PDF should be masked and
flatten. The header for “Disclaimers and limitations of liability”  it
will be present by End of the CRT check report. The disclaimer should be
updated for possible matching cases, irrespective of the grading matrix
(UTV/RED/Green).

Petitioner and Respondent  A person who files a complaint against a
person or an entity is known as a petitioner. A person on whom a
complaint is filed on is know as Respondent

Errors 1. If there is a mismatch in address mentioned in the document
and in data provided 2. If there is a missing document 3. If the
comments are not captured as per the template 4. If the attached
document is expired (refer document format under Address check) 5. If
Requested or completed dates are missing 6. If law letterhead is missing
(as per package text)

Law firm Letterhead

We have certain clients for whom we have to add a law-firm letterhead
annexure in the court check along with the normal procedure. Info to
check for Letterhead will be mentioned in the Order summary/Package
text. Make sure you have the letterhead annexure in the report and check
if the report is of the candidate and no court records are found against
the candidate’s data

Letterhead annexure 

Client List: Law Firm Letterhead Neev Systems Private Limited SBNA
Software Solutions Private Limited Integrichain M Solution Speegile
Furthersysytmes Midland Microfin Limited Further Systems Private Limited
i2e Consulting Private Limited Resolvit Management and Technology
Consulting India Private Limited Torrins Anthem Private Limited 40K
Education Private Limited Aspire Fintech Private Limited Alleima India
Private Limited

SOP for Client AXA XL: Detailed descriptions of the case should not be
included in the report or the comment section. The CNR Number should be
updated in the comment section. The confirmation PDF should be masked
and flattened. FIR details should be masked. The header for “Disclaimers
and limitations of liability” in the comment section should be formatted
in bold. The disclaimer should be updated for possible matching cases,
irrespective of the grading matrix (UTV/RED/Green). Do not include the
description of the section under which the person is booked. (Example:
If a person is booked under IPC 420, the report may state that the
person is booked under IPC 420, but the description of IPC 420 should
not be included). The report format remains the same. Vendor details
must be masked along with hyperlinks to the vendor portal and eCourt
portal. The following are the sections where hyperlinks are included in
the report: On top of the report under the archived version of the case
Case History section History of Case Hearing FIR Details Final
Orders/Judgments Main information sections Police Clearance Certificate 
When we find particle matches of the candidate’s info, at times the
candidate will come back stating that he/she has no criminal records. To
support the claim, the candidate will provide a Police clearance
certificate.

Attached below is an example of Police clearance certificate

Things to note: We will update the comments in Court check regarding the
PCC, make sure PCC is updated in a fullform as Police Clearance
Certificate and not in short form as PCC

Check Statuses: Scenarios - If candidate is petitioner  What is Bail
Application case? If a person believes they may be arrested for a crime
they are accused of, they can apply for a bail order in advance to avoid
being taken into custody. Bail application cases are register under
CRPC438,439 which has been now changed to 482 and 483 of Bharatiya
Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 Scenario 1: Bail Application Case → 
Condition 1: Complete Match

If the candidate is petitioner and the name and address is completely
matching with the petitioner record, we can mark the check as
“Discrepant”

✅ QC Grade: Discrepant

Condition 2: Partial Match

If the candidate is petitioner and the name and address is partially
matching with the petitioner record, we can mark the check as “Unable to
Verify”

✅ QC Grade: UTV (Unable to Verify)

Scenario 2: Not a Bail Application Case For non-bail application case
check will be graded as “Verified”.

✅ QC Grade: Verified

-   When we find a partial match, the case type is major(Criminal) and
    we don’t have a valid data match the check will go as Unable To
    Verify  

-   If a complete match is found between the data and the source
    document, and the case type is classified as a major case (such as a
    Criminal or Civil case) that falls under the Red Category, the check
    must be graded as Discrepant.

-   The check will be marked as Insuff closed when there are
    insufficient documents to run the Court check.

-   The Court check will be marked as Closed, only when there is a
    client request

World Check(WCK)

World Check is done to cross check records (terrorist attack,
laundering, corruption or any other records internationally) of the
candidate on a global level.  Check package text for the case before
starting WCK QC. There are a few clients that request a database list to
be attached along with the case report. World: : Attach the database
list. World Check (Attach the Database) Client: Bangalore Aircraft
Industries Private Limited World Check - List of Keywords
https://admin.in.springverify.com/candidate/document?uuid=6ab8edea-3139-433d-b62b-19d9695651df

Completed Green - World Check A World Check report, when marked as
Verified, has the header “Case Report”. World Check: Example Case The
following details are mentioned under DP: Name  Father’s Name Date of
Birth Address The following is to be mentioned under “Details”:
Verification Type - Electronic Source - LSEG Requested Date Completed
Date The following document is to be attached under “Documents”:
Verified Document - This document has the LSEG report for World Check.
The following details should be checked in the report -  Name - 
Candidate name should be an exact match as per DP in the internal
report. A slight variation in name is acceptable as long as we are sure
that it represents the same candidate. Date of Birth - should match the
date of birth in DP (hence, PAN). Vendor Details - should be MASKED in
white. Hence, vendor details shouldn’t be visible at all. Vendor details
are mentioned below Case ID and at the footer of each page. Verified
Document - If in case, candidate ID is not added under Identity Check,
then, ID proof is attached under World Check. Any ID is sufficient to
run World Check

Insuff Closed - World Check World Check will go as Insuff - Closed when
we have insufficient documents to run the check and when the candidate
or client do not respond after multiple follow ups.

Closed - World Check World Check will go as Closed when there is a
client request for the same.

UTV - World Check World Check will go as UTV when we are unable to
validate the details mentioned.

Discrepant - World Check A World Check report, when marked as
Discrepant, has the header “World Check Match Details Report”. World
Check will go as Discrepant when there is a finding in the LSEG report
where the name and DOB is an exact match.

Verified WCK example

Cibil Check/Credit Check:

-> Process update for CIBIL Check: Name, Father’s Name, DOB, or Gender
Variations:- If there are variations in any of these fields, the check
would be graded as Verified. No Credit History / Score = -1, the check
would be grading as Verified. Low Credit Score (≤300): if the credit
score is 300 or below, the check would be graded as Discrepant.

Cibil Check is done to know the Cibil Score (Credit Score) of the
candidate.  CIBIL Score is a three-digit numeric summary of the
candidate’s credit history. The score is derived using the credit
history found in the CIBIL Report (also known as CIR i.e Credit
Information Report). A CIR is an individual’s credit payment history
across loan types and credit institutions over a period of time. Cibil
Check cannot be run without PAN number as all our financial records are
linked to PAN number.

Completed Verified  - Cibil Check Example Case: Green Cibil Check The
following details are mentioned under DP: Name  PAN Number Date of Birth
The following is to be mentioned under “Details”: CIBIL TRANSUNION SCORE
Version 2.0 - The score in the internal report should be an exact match
of the Transunion Report Requested Date Completed Date Comments, if any
The following document is to be attached under “Documents”: Verified
Document - This document has the Transunion Cibil report for Cibil
Check. The following details should be checked in the report -  Name - 
Candidate name under consumer information should be an exact match to DP
in the internal report.  A slight variation in name is acceptable as
long as we are sure that it represents the same candidate. The Identity
Check section (Data Found) can be checked for the same. Comment will be
mentioned for the variation, even if the difference is minor(e.g., the
addition of a middle name, initial, or slight spelling difference). 

Few name variation Example: 1. Case link . As per DP (wrt PAN)  name is
“Lakshmi Chikkerur” As per CIBIL report name is “Lakshmi K Chikkerur”
that will be updated in DF and based on this variation comment will be
captured for this.

2.  Case Link . As per DP (wrt PAN)  name is “Pradeep Latha Vijayendran”
    As per CIBIL report name is “Pradeep L V V” that will be updated in
    DF and based on this variation comment will be captured for this.

Date of Birth - should match the date of birth in DP (hence, PAN).
Vendor Details - should be MASKED in white. Hence, vendor details
shouldn’t be visible at all. Only PAN is accepted for Cibil Check and it
is mandatory to be attached in the Cibil check. . For DP and DF 
variation captured in terms of name and DOB, comment will be captured. 

Cibil Scores: Below  ≤300 - Low Cibil Score - the check is to go as
discrepant. Above 300 - Acceptable Cibil Score - check will be graded as
Verified  If the candidate is not in CIBIL Database or if the loan
history is older than 36 months, then the Cibil Score will be -1. . 
comment as per the SVIN Check Grading Templates will be given for the
same. Example Case: Cibil Score -1

Insuff Closed - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as Insuff - Closed when
we have insufficient documents to run the check and when the candidate
or client do not respond after multiple follow ups.

Closed - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as Closed when there is a
client request for the same. Example Case: Closed Cibil Check

UTV - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as UTV when we are unable to
validate the details mentioned.

Discrepant - Cibil Check Cibil Check will go as Discrepant when:  Low
Credit Score (≤300): if the credit score is 300 or below, the check
would be graded as Discrepant. Mismatch of the candidate’s PAN number
from TransUnion CIBIL report, check would be graded as Discrepant

Drug Check: 

A pre-employment drug testing program for background investigation helps
protect employers from hiring drug users, before they can have any
impact on the workplace. It is done to find if the candidate has a habit
of regular consumption of drugs. The result should be found negative for
verified check otherwise for positive case it will go as discrepant. Why
are drug tests important at the workplace ? Drug users are more prone to
accidents To improve worker safety and health To avoid workplace hazards
Prevent employee theft and absenteeism Drugs hamper employee
productivity Drug users are a big threat to organizations dealing with
sensitive data Drugs Tested in the 5-Panel Test Drug panel-5 uses urine
as the sample to test for the presence of commonly abused drugs
substances: marijuana, cocaine, opiates, amphetamines, and Phencyclidine
(PCP). Commercial names for opiates include Codeine, Morphine, and
Heroin (6 AM). Methamphetamine and MDMA are common amphetamines, and
street names include Meth, Molly, Extract, and M. PCP is often referred
to as angel dust or rocket fuel. Cut off Levels (Urine)

Completed Green Negative results indicate absence of drug in urine or
concentrations below the assay cutoff .   Example: Completed Green Drug
Check

Completed Discrepant case Positive results indicate presence of drugs in
urine or concentrations above the assay cutoff. Example : Completed Red
Drug Check 

Custom Check: 

Resume validation Checks: A resume verification process involves
fact-checking the information on a CV, it is a procedure through which
the features of the information provided by the applicant in both the
Resume and Profile Background Form are corroborated and the legitimacy
of the information is authenticated and determined. 

Importance of a CV Validation CV Validation can help prevent bad
recruits by validating the candidate’s work experience and education
before making a hiring decision. Many companies provide a resume to
offer compensation packages, promotions and job responsibilities.
However, many job applicants and employees provide fake details,
education and employment history to appear more qualified to grab
successful jobs. Offering benefits to an unqualified individual based on
exaggerated CVs could waste time, money and efforts on training besides
falsely affecting a company’s productivity and increased turnover rate.
CV frauds such as the exaggeration of skills, false experience are some
reasons that involve CV verification. CV validation is also important to
detect resume frauds such as claiming to have been employed by companies
they never worked for. The major areas where CV frauds were detected
were in the areas of employment verification along with address
verification, reference screening, and education. Resume Validation -
Green When the details of the candidate matches with the verification
done, the check is graded as verifed.

Social Media Checks A Social Media Background Check is a thorough
examination of a person’s social media history, looking for negative
behaviors that may be indicated by posts, likes or comments. This may
help give employers an indication of the personality or character of
potential employees. These negative behaviors include bullying, racism,
extremist religious or political views, excessive foul language and
more. In addition to analyzing a person’s social media accounts, a
Social Media Background Check also looks into associations or groups to
which they may be affiliated. Someone may post infrequently and have a
relatively clean posting history, but this may only tell part of a
story. If they are members of a group or frequently liked pages
associated with problematic content or ideas, such as supremacist or
fundamentalist groups, this may indicate a number of factors that could
influence a job offer.  

Why are social media background checks important? Conducting social
media checks is important for a number of different reasons and the
reasons why businesses carry out social media checks should relate to
the challenges that they face around risk, such as: Security – risks can
range from hiring someone linked to a Proscribed organization or illegal
activities, to a candidate who could expose your company to bribery,
corruption or fraud. Behavior – the risk from an individual’s negative
behavior can have far-reaching consequences for your staff, your
customers and your brand. For example, if they breach company policy,
showcase undesirable characteristics or leak confidential information.
Integrity – an adverse media story can damage a company’s reputation
many years down the line, linking your brand with sexist or racist
behavior for example. Social media checks are also a useful way to
validate information shared by a candidate, helping you gauge more
intangible qualities like trust.

Platform used to find candidate profiles are:  LinkedIn Twitter Facebook
Instagram Other associate accounts if found 

Completed Green When the candidate does not have any misconduct in
public, political rants, sexual abuse, police/court records etc  found
in the verification . Example : Green social media check

Completed Yellow When the candidate’s social media profiles are not
available or private, due to which the verification is incomplete  then
the check is graded as Unable To Verify (Yellow).

Example: Yellow social media check

===== EXTRACTED TEXT FROM SCREENSHOTS =====

Error: Import ‘fastapi’ could not be resolved. Pylance
(reportMissingImports). Error: Import ‘slack_sdk’ could not be resolved.
Pylance (reportMissingImports). These errors indicate that required
Python packages are not installed in the active Python environment or
the correct interpreter is not selected.
